Leet's write a program to display a multiplication table.
I will take n, and i will ask for what number you want
Multiplication table.
So enter a number then cin n, using a for loop.
I can easily display this one.
I assign one, and I is less than or equal to 10 I plus plus inside
this as, already we have seen this what I have to write and multiplied by for multiplication I'm using
symbol X here with I and equal to I into n, I multiplied by n then also.
endl for the next line that's it.
So this will us ask a number and based on that number it will display a multiplication table.
Let us run the program
enter a Number five.
So here is multiplication table for number 5.
I run once again, enter a number:  9.
So here is a multiplication table for number 9.
That's it.
So there's a program for multiplication table for a given number.
Now let me convert this program for finding the sum of First n natural numbers. already we
have seen the program in the previous video.
So here I will take one variable sum and which is initialized to zero.
Now using for loop I will take integer i starting from 1 onwards and I is less than equal to
n , so it will be incrementing from one through n then every time I will say some assigns some plus i
And after the end of the loop.
cout sum of first
n
natural numbers is, then display sum.
So there's a formula for sum of the first natural numbers.
Also you can use the formula.
Otherwise this program will take
I and it will be go on adding I.
One by one so I will be one then two then three.
And so on till
n, let me see what is the answer for
ten, it should be 55,   10 yes.
Sum of first natural number is 55.
Here is the o/p.
I have not given endl.
I can write endl here and run it again for another number.
Now here I will mention 20.
I got the answer that is 210 .
So the sum of first 20 natural numbers is 210
so ywe ou have seen one more  program
now i will this program to find the factors of a given number.
So for factors of a number
Again I should iterate from one to n, so I'll remove the sum I don't need this.
Now this is the basic thing that i require n entry a number and we will iterate from one through n
then every time what we see is if that number is exactly divisible by i
So how it is exactly divisible if it is leaving remainder  zero.
Then we cout  that number i and also I  will gives some space between the numbers.
Let us run it and see
enter a number 15.
So the factors of 15 are 1 3 5 and 15 yes
27.
So the factors of 27 are 1 3 9 and 27.
So yes this is how to find factors
Now even I have shown you how to find a number is prime or not.
So I will take one counter and that is initial as
I would take one counter and initialize to zero.
The variable name is Count and whenever there is a exact division I will try to count plus plus then
outside the for loop.
I will check if count is exactly 2 then I will say its a prime and \n
else, cout not prime \n. see already we have discussed in a previous video that if the
see already we have discussed in a previous video that if the number of factors are only two then
the number is prime.
So this the number for checking that the number is prime or not.
Let me run and see
enter a number 17.
It's a prime
enter the number 28.
It's not a prime.
Perfect
two, its a prime.
Yes it is perfect.
So it's working perfectly.
We are counting the number of factors of a number.
If they are two then it's a prime.
So you can try out all these programs by yourself so you need to practice this and with this you get
the ideas and you can write on more programs from your side.